# ros2_thread_configurator
A library that allows you to configure thread scheduling for all callback groups of ROS 2 nodes launched by the `component_container_callback_isolated` package using just one YAML file.

For instructions on how to use this tool, please refer to https://github.com/sykwer/callback_isolated_executor/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#usage.

## YAML Configuration File Format
For each ROS 2 application, prepare a single YAML configuration file.
The format of the YAML configuration file is as follows.
There is a top-level entry called `callback_groups`, under which there are arrays representing each callback group.
The IDs for the callback groups are automatically generated by this tool according to the rules described in the next section.

```yaml
callback_groups:
  - id: xxxxx
    affinity:
      - 0
      - 1
    policy: SCHED_OTHER
    priority: -10

  - id: yyyyy
    affinity:
      - 2
      - 3
    policy: SCHED_FIFO
    priority: 50

...
```

In the affinity field, provide an array of core numbers that are allowed to run the OS threads corresponding to the callback group.
The numbers provided here correspond to those used with `sched_setaffinity(2)`.
Leaving this array empty means allowing operation on all cores.

In the policy field, you can specify one of the following scheduling policies:
- `SCHED_OTHER`
- `SCHED_BATCH`
- `SCHED_FIFO`
- `SCHED_RR`
- `SCHED_DEADLINE`

When specifying the task scheduling policy as `SCHED_OTHER` or `SCHED_BATCH`, it is executed on the CFS (Completely Fair Scheduler).
When set to `SCHED_FIFO` or `SCHED_RR`, it runs on the FIFO scheduler.
When specified as `SCHED_DEADLINE`, it is scheduled on the EDF (Earliest Deadline First) scheduler.

Depending on which scheduler the thread (CallbackGroup) operates on, the configuration items vary.
Below, the configurable items for each scheduler are described.

### CFS
For threads operating on the CFS, you can specify the nice value.
In the YAML file, this is specified under the entry name  `priority`.
The values can range from `-20` (highest priority) to `19` (lowest priority).

```yaml
  - id: xxxxx
    affinity:
      - 0
      - 1
    policy: SCHED_OTHER
    priority: -10
```

### FIFO Scheduler
For threads operating on the FIFO scheduler, you can specify the priority.
In the YAML file, this is specified under the entry name  `priority`.
The values can range from `99` (highest priority) to `1` (lowest priority).
This range corresponds to the return values of `sched_get_priority_max(2)` and `sched_get_priority_min(2)`.
On Linux, these values are `99` and `1`.

```yaml
  - id: xxxxx
    affinity:
      - 0
      - 1
    policy: SCHED_FIFO
    priority: 50
```

### EDF Scheduler
For threads operating on the FIFO scheduler, you can specify the parameters named `runtime`, `deadline`, and `period`.

```yaml
  - id: xxxxx
    affinity:
      - 0
      - 1
    policy: SCHED_DEADLINE
    runtime: 10000000
    deadline: 10000000
    period: 20000000
```


## CallbackGroup ID format
